The Project Gutenberg eBook, Ninth annual report of the St. Mary Abbott's,
Kensington, Church of England District Visiting Society, by Anonymous


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org





Title: Ninth annual report of the St. Mary Abbott's, Kensington, Church of England District Visiting Society
       with some account of the different societies subordinate or affiliated to it


Author: Anonymous



Release Date: August 13, 2013  [eBook #43461]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE ST.
MARY ABBOTT'S, KENSINGTON, CHURCH OF ENGLAND DISTRICT VISITING SOCIETY***


Transcribed from the 1853 W. Birch edition by David Price, email
ccx074@pglaf.org.  Many thanks to Royal Kensington Libraries for allowing
their copy to be used for this transcription.





                                  NINTH
                              ANNUAL REPORT
                                  OF THE
                            ST. MARY ABBOTT’S,
                               Kensington,
                            CHURCH OF ENGLAND
                                 DISTRICT
                            VISITING SOCIETY,


                                 TOGETHER

               WITH SOME ACCOUNT OF THE DIFFERENT SOCIETIES
                     SUBORDINATE OR AFFILIATED TO IT.

                                * * * * *

                                  1853.

                                * * * * *

                               KENSINGTON:
                PRINTED BY W. BIRCH, TERRACE, HIGH STREET.




ST. MARY ABBOTT’S, KENSINGTON,
Church of England
DISTRICT VISITING SOCIETY.


                                PRESIDENT.
                   THE VEN. ARCHDEACON SINCLAIR, VICAR.

                             VICE-PRESIDENTS.
         SIR J. CONROY, BART., K.C.H.  SIR HENRY WILLOCK, K.L.S.

                                TREASURER.
                               Mr. CLARKE.

                            JOINT SECRETARIES.
                    THE REV. THE CURATES.  MR. WARNER.

                                AUDITORS.
                   MR. WESTON.  MR. FREDERICK THOMPSON.

                                COMMITTEE.

MR. BAILEY.             MR. GOODEVE.
DR. BAYFORD, D.C.L.     MR. HUGHES.
MR. BELLWORTHY.         REV. J. H. HOWLETT.
MR. C. BUNYON.          MR. MERRIMAN.
MR. COOKE.              MR. J. N. MERRIMAN.
MR. ELLIS.              MR. CARRICK MOORE.

                                COLLECTOR.
               ALFRED ELLIS, 16, _Lower Phillimore Place_.

                                * * * * *

_Ladies or Gentlemen who may be desirous of taking charge of Districts as
Visitors_, _are requested to communicate with the Secretaries_, _who_,
_in the event vacancies occurring_, _will inform them thereof_.

_The Secretaries will be happy to give all the information in their power
to any Subscriber or Parishioner who may wish for it_, _upon any point
not fully treated of in the Report of the Committee_.




GENERAL RULES.


1.  THIS Society shall be called the “ST. MARY ABBOTT’S KENSINGTON,
CHURCH OF ENGLAND DISTRICT VISITING SOCIETY.”

2.  The object of this Society shall be, to improve the temporal and
spiritual condition of the Poor of Kensington.

3.  A Fund for that purpose shall be raised by Subscriptions and
Donations; Subscriptions to be due on the first of January in each year.

4.  Annual Subscribers of not less than One Guinea shall be Members of
the Society.

5.  The business of the Society shall be conducted by a Board, consisting
of a President, Vice-Presidents, a Treasurer, Secretary, and Committee of
Management.  The Vicar to be President, ex-officio; the Curates, Members
of the Committee; other twelve members, to be elected at the yearly
general meeting of the Society.  A Report of the Proceedings of the Board
shall be presented annually at the General Meeting, and published for the
information of the Parishioners.

6.  The Board shall meet on the first Saturday in every Month, to audit
accounts submitted, and decide upon cases referred.  Three Members to
form a quorum.

7.  The operations of this Society shall be extended over that portion of
Kensington which is in connexion with the Clergy of St. Mary Abbott’s
Church.

8.  The Visitors shall all be members of the Established Church; their
business shall be, to keep a List of all the families in their several
Districts, according to a prescribed form; to inquire into all cases
recommended; to administer relief; and to circulate Books and Tracts upon
the List of this Society.

9.  Relief shall not be given in any case by the Visitor to a larger
amount than 2s. a week for adults, and 1s. for each child, nor continue
for a longer period than four weeks, without the sanction of the Board,
at its monthly meeting.  The Board, however, shall not be subject to the
same restrictions.

10.  Relief shall be administered by orders on Shopkeepers, and not in
money, except in extreme cases.

11.  No applicant of notoriously immoral character shall be relieved; but
relief shall not be refused to any person on account of his religious
persuasion.

12.  No person shall be relieved who has not resided three months in the
Parish, and has not occupied the same house or lodging, unless good
reason be assigned.

13.  Subscribers to the Society may recommend cases for inquiry and
relief.  Recommendations may be sent to the National School House, whence
they will be forwarded daily to the Visitors.  Money remitted to any of
the Parochial Clergy for the relief of particular families shall be
appropriated to that purpose, if they are found to be proper objects of
charity; otherwise it shall be returned to the Donor, or, with his
consent, added to the general fund.

14.  Visitors are requested to forward their Books to the Secretaries,
for the consideration of the Board, the Saturday before the monthly
meeting.

15.  A Parochial Lending Library shall be provided by the Board, together
with a supply of Books and Tracts, to be either given, lent, or sold by
the Visitors.  No Book to be sold at a lower rate than half-price.

16.  Cases of sickness shall always be reported by the Visitors to the
Parochial Clergy.

17.  The Board, at its monthly meeting, shall supply the Visitors with
funds proportioned to the probable wants of their several Districts.




CONTENTS.

                                              PAGE
BLANKETS                                        22
COAL FUND                                       20
CLOTHING FUND                                   21
WINTER CLUB                                     21
PROVIDENT CLUB                                  21
WORK SOCIETY                                    23
MATERNITY SOCIETY                               13
PAROCHIAL NURSERY                               14
INFANT SCHOOL                                   15
CHRIST CHURCH NATIONAL SCHOOL, GORE LANE        18
JENNINGS’ BUILDINGS SCHOOL                      16
ANALYSIS OF RELIEF GIVEN                        24
DISTRICT VISITING—ITS PRACTICAL WORKING         25
—RESULTS                                        28




NINTH ANNUAL REPORT.


In putting forth, for the information and satisfaction of the
Parishioners of St. Mary Abbott’s, the Ninth Annual Report of the
KENSINGTON CHURCH OF ENGLAND DISTRICT VISITING SOCIETY, the Committee
feel constrained to call the serious attention of all residents blessed
with the will and power of exercising a discriminating charity to the
several subscription lists annually put forth from the date of its
foundation.  A comparative view of the balance sheets of its receipts and
expenditure, from the time that the several Ecclesiastical Districts were
separated from the Mother Church will reveal facts, which no impartial
person can consider in creditable keeping with the progress that has
taken place in the numbers and respectability of the population.  Large
areas of formerly vacant ground, both in the New Town and on Campden
Hill, are now covered with houses, in the occupation of tenants who must
possess competent, if not abundant, means.  In Palace Gardens, mansions
have sprung up, which, in all the appliances of a luxurious and tasteful
civilization, throw into the shade the neighbouring Royal residence.  The
value of rateable property is now assessed at a sum that very largely
exceeds its registered amount six years ago.  From such data, and arguing
from the general benevolence of the English character it would not have
been unreasonable to expect a corresponding advance in the sums set apart
for Christian Almsgiving.  This natural hope has not been justified.  The
reverse is the case.  Year by year the contributions have been falling
off, until between the revenues of 1846 and 1852, there exists no less a
difference than 150_l._, being considerably more than a third of the
entire income from those sources.  Nor must it be supposed that the
continued erection of habitations adapted to the requirements of families
moving in the upper and middle walks of life has been unaccompanied by
any provision for the accommodation of the numerous classes who wait upon
and minister to their wants.  In one street alone a considerable number
of small dwellings, containing from six to eight rooms, have recently
been built, by which comfortable lodgings are secured to upwards of five
hundred new inhabitants, of whom a large majority, on any failure of
health or employment, would become eligible candidates for temporary
relief.  Under the pressure of circumstances thus doubly adverse, with a
sphere of usefulness steadily increasing, yet decreasing supplies
wherewith to occupy it profitably, it may be a matter of surprise to
some, that the operations of the Society have been so efficiently and
perseveringly maintained.  But the solution of the problem is to be
sought in the tendency of those operations themselves.  The alleviation
of physical misery was but one, and not the most important one, amongst
the many objects, which engaged the attention of its first managers.  To
forestall the occurrence of distress, by stimulating and encouraging
provident habits, was, in temporal affairs, their main purpose.  The
principle of forethought was systematically wrought into the mind of each
applicant for help.  Hence, in proportion as the love of the rich waxed
cold, the energy of the poor strengthened; and though the bounty of the
former diminished, the savings of the latter augmented until the Deposits
in the Coal, Clothing, and Winter Clubs have more than doubled the
amounts collected by subscription.  These constitute a reserve fund
always available to its members, in seasons of unlooked for privation.
Ordinarily, the man who has money in each of these Clubs requires no
extraneous assistance; he is sufficient for himself.  His three grand
winter wants, fuel, raiment, and rent, are all provided for.  This
independence enables him to understand the pleasures of an honest
industry; raises him above the influence of any trifling fluctuation in
his trade, and educes at once and fosters the invaluable characteristic
of consistent self-respect.  The establishment of safe and remunerating
investments for the earnings of the prudent artizan is a boon, which soon
returns an ample interest to a neighbourhood.  As their intention and
working becomes known and comprehended, they are thankfully appreciated
by the more thoughtful portion of the operative body, who soon learn that
by the exercise of a due economy and regular apportionment of their
wages, it is quite possible to anticipate the ordinary exigencies of the
future, and live independent of eleemosynary aid.  That this result has
taken place in Kensington is demonstrable from the subjoined table, which
shows the sums spent by the Visitor in a district where the population
has increased an eighth in three years before and after the introduction
of the Clubs.  It would probably be found a fair type of the system.

           Money expended.      Money deposited.
1847        £13     12     9     £11     16      3
1850          7      0     0      18     18      3
1852         10      5     6      26      0     10

The Winter Club deposits amounting last year to £8 1_s._ 6_d._ are not
included in the summary.  Enough however will have been adduced to
indicate in what way the reduced resources of the Institution have
hitherto sufficed for its actual necessities.  But the causes that have
led to the deficiency in its income are yet to be explained.

These may be stated as arising first from the death or change of
residence of many original supporters; and, secondly, from want of
acquaintance on the part of new comers with its existence.  Nor should
this be a matter of much surprise; since, in every populous parish, so
many Institutions for the temporal and spiritual advantage of the
working-classes are necessary to be maintained, that comparatively few of
those, who do not make a conscience of inquiring into their condition,
are aware of either their number or relative importance.  This remark
applies with peculiar force to suburban districts such as Kensington,
where a large proportion of the heads of families proceed early in the
morning to transact their daily business in London, and do not return
until the evening.  The fault of their ignorance is not however to be
charged to the Committee of the Society, who do all in their power to
make known its title to assistance, both by the publication of Reports,
and the appointment of a collector, whose business it is not merely to
gather old, but also to solicit new subscriptions.  But in many
instances, the servants are prohibited from receiving printed appeals by
a general order, which, of course, renders nugatory any communication
that might be addressed to their masters through the medium of the Press.
This is a hardship on both parties, in that the very individuals who are
the first to complain of the apparent omission, are the involuntary
victims of their own direction, and continue deprived of a satisfactory
channel for the administration of their alms; while the Charity advocated
in the pamphlet intended to be left at their houses suffers in the full
amount which might otherwise have been placed at its disposal.  There are
some cases on the other side, in which the clergy have been requested by
persons immediately on their entrance into the Parish to supply them with
a list of the benevolent Institutions requiring succour.  It would be
well were this example more universally followed.  None would then
complain of being overlooked.

With these preliminary observations the Committee proceed to the more
grateful task of giving an account of their stewardship in the past year;
and as the best means of exhibiting the organisation now existing in St.
Mary Abbott’s, and informing the public of the comprehensive scheme of
charity, to which they are invited to take a part, the present Report
will bring in order under notice, the graduated agencies of beneficence
that are exerted upon the poor throughout the several stages of their
lives.

As that which refers to its very earliest period, it may be advisable to
commence with some account of the



MATERNITY SOCIETY,


which, after an independent course of active usefulness for above thirty
years, has been in some measure affiliated to the District Visiting
Society, though still retaining the valuable superintendence of those
ladies, under whose judicious management it has been productive of such
essential service.  Its purpose is to provide bags of baby-linen and
other fitting articles for respectable married women during the month of
their confinement; these are entrusted for distribution to the members of
the Committee, who usually grant them on the recommendation of a
subscriber, or of the Visitor of the District in which the applicant
resides.  A copy of the New Testament is sent at the same time, which is
often not without its influence in suggesting to the recipient the
promise that, though in “sorrow she is to bring forth children,
notwithstanding she shall be saved in child-bearing, if she continue in
faith, and charity, and holiness, with sobriety.”  Those possessing
larger means, who have been preserved in this great peril and danger,
need not be told that next to the accustomed offering at the Altar, there
is no more appropriate object for the pecuniary acknowledgments of a
thankful spirit, than an Institution claiming to ameliorate those very
sufferings from which they have in mercy been so recently delivered.

But the question of support and maintenance soon follows upon the birth
of the infant.  The poor mother cannot afford to remain at home all day
to tend her child.  What then becomes of her babe?  Shall it be consigned
to the care of some aged neighbour, at a cost of a third part of her
daily earnings; or must the education of an elder daughter be interfered
with, that she may become its nurse?  Both these pernicious alternatives
have been superseded by the



PAROCHIAL NURSERY, IN GREAT GROVE HOUSE.


This establishment consists of two good sized airy rooms, in a quiet part
of the town, fitted up with cradles, mattresses, and other articles of
infantile furniture, for the reception of babies, whose mothers are
engaged in daily employment.  A small yard or playground is attached,
where the children old enough to run alone may take their exercise
without any fear of the dangers incidental to the streets.  The charge of
this infant family is confided to an experienced matron, who with the
assistance of a competent nursery-maid, conducts the affairs of her
Lilliputian kingdom to the satisfaction of the many parents interested in
its prosperity.  During the past year, the attendances of infants have
reached the startling number of 2788, being 286 beyond those recorded in
the last Report.  The payments for their safe keeping have exceeded £20,
while the reduction in expence to their mothers is calculated at no less
amount than £278 16_s._

To all who, in watching over the helplessness and innocence of infancy,
have learnt how delicate is the constitution, how difficult is the
rearing of a child, the Committee hopefully commend the cause of these
babes of toil.  To rescue them from the evils of a careless tending; to
preserve them from disease engendered by deleterious cordials,
administered by ignorant and impatient guardians to hush their cries; to
insure them the common blessings of light and air, of cleanliness and
warmth, is essentially a mother’s charity.  Nor will the lady, surveying
with a grateful heart, the commodious arrangement of the apartments of
her little ones, have her sense of gratification, in bending over the
cradle of her son and heir, diminished by the recollection that she has
been instrumental in procuring for the offspring of others, some amongst
those comforts so abundantly bestowed upon her own.  And if, as is
presumed, our boys and girls are taught, in advancing youth, to set
apart, on principle, a certain percentage of their allowances for
purposes of Christian love, where will they find an object for their
sympathies more in unison with their age and feelings than one devoted to
the reception of children far younger and more feeble than themselves?

At the age of two years, the infants are transferred to one of the three
Schools of the District.  Of these, that in Church Court, which, as the
feeder of the central National School, has enrolled upon its books about
one hundred and fifty scholars between the ages of two and seven years,
receives the great proportion.  The rest, for the most part, are absorbed
by either the Jennings’ Buildings or the Gore Lane School, each of which
possess a prescriptive right to mention in these pages, not only from the
grants they have severally obtained, but from the position they hold in
the Parochial organization.



JENNINGS’ BUILDINGS,


is a purlieu of the town, leading out of the High Street, and is the
chosen settlement of the Irish Romanists.  It consists of a series of
courts and alleys which, for closeness and filth, are probably without a
parallel westward of St. Paul’s.  Being a _cul de sac_, unlighted,
irregularly paved, and indifferently supplied with water, its best
disposed inhabitants find it difficult to cultivate the habits of
civilized life.  The majority give the matter up, and seek in alcoholic
and other stimulants, an antidote against wretchedness, malaria, and
disease.  Nowhere are the evils of overcrowded chambers more apparent.
Single rooms frequently shelter two, and even three families.  Its
choicest district exhibits a return of forty families to eighteen houses;
of one hundred and sixty persons, exclusive of lodgers, sleeping in
thirty nine rooms.  The entire population, inclusive of Palace Place,
must exceed one thousand five hundred souls.  Prior to the erection of
the present School, it was impossible for ladies to penetrate its
recesses.  The Police entered its retreats in couples.  In 1847 the work
of reformation commenced; since then a steady progress has been made.  At
first, the school was emphatically a ragged school; its scholars were
literally running wild and half naked in the streets; they outraged alike
propriety and decency.  Gradually, a change has been wrought.
Cleanliness and obedience are rule, where formerly dirt and turbulence
prevailed.  Gifts of serviceable clothing to the elder and most regular
pupils of both sexes have introduced some appreciation of tidiness and
self-respect.  Above all, the systematic visitation of its Ladies’
Committee and their friends, has been productive of most humanizing
effects.  Slight attempts are recognizable, on the part of the residents,
to render their locality less decidedly objectionable.  They have, at
least, before them a higher standard, which a few are endeavouring to
reach.  The teaching of the children has thus reacted on the mothers; and
though from the constant importation of fresh immigrants the battle must
be fought uphill, there can be but little doubt on which side the victory
will rest at last.  But with the Homeric hero it is fair to wish for
light.  Granted the day and the contest must be successful.  It is the
ignorance of the Irish, that is the nurse of their misery; lighten this
darkness, and as the clouds of superstition and prejudice roll away,
whatever germs of good, and they are many, now lie undeveloped in their
hearts, will blossom beneath the genial rays of knowledge, and bring
forth fruit in season.  Already thirty children have gone from this
school to earn their own living in the states of life to which it has
pleased God to call them; and if in their different situations they are
practising, as the reports of their employers testify, the virtues of
honesty, sobriety, and industry, of gentleness and modesty, there can be
no undue assumption in attributing this happy issue far more to
discipline and precept, than to nature or example.

The average of attendances during the past year is about sixty-five,
though this number has, at times, been considerably exceeded.  The
expenditure for rent, books, master, &c., is £114, of which only £61 is
obtained by regular subscriptions.  But it most assuredly becomes all who
have at heart the interests of Scriptural religion, who desiderate the
spread of Gospel Light, and love the truth as it is in Jesus, to combine
in strengthening by both personal and pecuniary aid, an Educational
Institution, abundantly blessed in the rescue of many children from
heathenism, vice, and crime.  It is planted in a Missionary Field of no
ordinary importance; stretched before our very doors, almost as much
untilled and unsown as the sterile wastes of Paganism.  One isolated spot
it has, whence all that is green and refreshing in its barrenness
proceeds—its District School.  Shall _its_ vegetation wither for lack of
Alms and Prayers to water the young and vigorous shoots?

Nor has the attempt to extend the National System of Education to the
Eastern portion of the Parish proved less satisfactory.



THE GORE LANE SCHOOL


has gone on improving in numbers and efficiency since its foundation.
For some months, these essentials to prosperity proceeded at an equal
march.  But, afterwards, the attendance of younger children became
numerous enough to interfere with the tuition of the elder.  This serious
inconvenience was beginning to be felt at the publication of the last
Report.  However, at the very crisis, the Trustees of the little British
and Foreign School at the bottom of the Lane, ingenuously acknowledging
the decided preference manifested by the parents of the children for the
teaching of the Church, and finding the impossibility of maintaining,
with any adequate return, their own establishment, with praiseworthy
liberality offered it to the Vicar, under an impression that he might
still render it useful, by converting it into an Infant School.  Although
an assent to this proposal involved an immediate acceptance of
liabilities to the amount of £100, the necessary funds were advanced
through the Treasurer of the Trust, in the conviction that, when the
circumstances of the transfer became known, so great an obligation would
not be suffered to rest on the generosity of a single individual.  Thus,
an Infant School, and playground as well as a Master’s House, are secured
to the present Trustees, at a small annual rent of £5.  The result has,
in a great measure, justified the anticipations of the Promoters of the
transaction.  The Christ Church Congregation, to which these Schools are
peculiarly attached, have partially accepted the responsibility.  The
whole juvenile population of the Lane avails itself of the opportunities
afforded to it.  Fifty Infants attend the Lower, one hundred boys and
girls the Upper School.  Their pence have increased

                   from      £1     14     6  in 1851,
                     to     £10     16     4  in 1852.
 The Subscriptions from     £18     11     0  in 1851,
                     to     £42     12     6  in 1852.

£92 have been contributed in donations, and a new item in the income,
arising out of the sale of the girls’ work, {19} returns as the profits
for the last six months £2 3_s._  These are encouraging features of the
prospect, but when it is considered on the other hand, that the very
large and special expenditure involved in the purchase of the New School,
and the reduction of its share in the Collection at St. Mary’s, from £30
to £14 should have fallen in the same year, it cannot be a matter of
surprise that the adverse balance of the last account is more than
doubled in the present.  Whilst, therefore, the Managers would return to
those many friends who have assisted them with gifts of clothing, and
other prizes, for the pupils, they would earnestly press upon the
congregation of Christ Church, and the residents in the Gore, the duty of
yielding to the Schools of their Church and neighbourhood, a regular, a
liberal, and a conscientious support.  It is a pleasure to add that this
call has been responded to by several; were all to act in a like spirit,
as God has prospered them, there would no longer be an occasion for these
appeals.

In passing from the juvenile to the adult members of the labouring
classes, the Visitors are bound to keep the same principle in view of
helping them to help themselves.  Whilst either are capable of so doing,
it is the truest charity to withhold all other aid.  In children, this is
effected by insisting on their receiving an Education adapted to their
future prospects: in adults, by fostering providence and forethought.
“Frugality,” said Goldsmith, writing to his brother, “in the lower orders
of mankind, is true ambition; it affords the only ladder for the poor to
rise to preferment.  Teach then, my dear sir, to your son, thrift and
economy.  I had learnt from books to be disinterested and generous,
before I was taught from experience the necessity of being prudent.”
This homely but difficult truth is becoming year by year more generally
acted upon.  It influences the whole social body.  Insurances on life and
against accidents are its forms amongst people enjoying wealth and
competence.  With others, possessed of smaller, but permanent incomes,
the savings’ banks develope its latent energies.  Provident funds remain
for those who live from hand to mouth.  Of these last, there are four in
St. Mary Abbott’s, having for their objects the safe keeping of weekly
deposits, to be appropriated respectively to Coal, Clothing, Rent, and
other minor expenses, at the end of each year.

The last Report recorded a falling off in 1851 in the contributors to the
Coal Club; it has been amply compensated for by the present large
increase.  The accompanying statement shows the comparative numbers in
each year:—

         Depositors.    Deposits & premium.   Coals distributed.
1851              367     £181     17      1  145 tons
1852              425      209      2     10  174 tons 5½ cwt.

A similar table indicates a similar satisfactory advance in the Clothing
Fund, which has never retrograded since its establishment:—

              Families          Amount deposited.     Amount spent.
             depositing.
1849                      73     £36     19     4     £42     14     7
1850                     124      55     17     5      65      8     5
1851                     157      66     15     0      72     12     6
1852                     190      78     14     1      91     19     9

In the Winter Club, on the other hand, there has been a large diminution
in the number of Depositors, consequent on the reduction in the interest
which, in former years reached the excessive rate of fifteen per cent. on
the sums received; the result was, a disproportionate accession of
members, some of whom were not entitled to avail themselves of its
benefits.  By means of the Visitors these impositions were detected,
people depositing in false names and residences exposed, and instances of
fraud from one person holding several cards prevented.  By lowering the
interest about one half, the temptation to deception has been lessened;
and so healthy is the present condition of the Club, that no case of
artifice occurred at the recent repayment of the principal.  Its
statistics now are—

Depositors.       Deposited.           Withdrawn.             Paid.
308              £309     6     0     £40     3     6     £289     2     5

Of its 308 depositors, 89 were also depositors to the Coal and Clothing
Funds.

The Provident Club, instituted for the reception of small sums, from one
penny upwards, is also doing its best to strengthen the same practical
thrift.  Though open all the year, its chief receipts are taken, as might
be rationally concluded, during those months when the other funds are not
in operation.  In one District, where the Visitor herself collects the
weekly savings, the comparatively large sum of £8 has been set aside.  As
no interest is allowed in this Club, such a fact goes far to confirm the
opinion that it is safe keeping, not usury, that the poor desire.  Nor
could a more pleasing proof of their confidence in their Visitors be
adduced, than that afforded by the simplicity and good faith in which
they trust their money to their charge.  The statistics of the Club may
be thus condensed:—

Depositors.     Sum deposited.     Balance from 1851.     Withdrawn 1852.          Balance.
128              £24     6     4½     £7     11     5½     £20     12     8½     £11     5     1½

In aggregating the result of the above economical agencies, it appears
that they have been used during the past year by upwards of a thousand
families, the sum of whose united deposits ranges between six and seven
hundred pounds.  Were there no ulterior benefits connected with the
Society, this alone should ensure it the commendation of intelligent
philanthropists.

But it is not only by pecuniary transactions that a preparation for the
future is presented to the mind of the prudent housewife: she is invited
to insure against the cold.




BLANKETS.


A large stock of blankets is annually distributed on loan to deserving
persons, who are considered by the Visitors in want of such a boon, and
not likely to abuse it.  For several years, and with an experience of
many hundred blankets, but few cases have occurred in which their
judgment has been deceived.  Some half dozen blankets may have been
pawned, and as many lost; more are fairly worn out.  A replenishment took
place at Christmas, 1851, and above three hundred were given out in
November last.  For each of these sixpence is paid by the woman to whom
it is lent, which, being devoted to cover the expence of its washing when
brought back in summer, is either returned as the price of ablution to
the holder herself, or given to the best laundress in the district where
she lives, in remuneration for this necessary work.

But the most industrious persons cannot always obtain occupation.  Breaks
in employment perpetually occur, especially in the case of females.
Servants out of place, laundresses and charwomen, milliners and
sempstresses, alike dependent on families visiting London only for the
season, all may be included in this list; simply to relieve them in
distress would be to increase the evil; it is a different thing to find
them work, hence the formation of the



WORK SOCIETY,


of which the intention is to purchase, by subscription, flannel, calico,
&c. to be made up into articles of useful wearing apparel, by any
respectable women who may be thankful to fill up their intervals of
involuntary leisure by using their needles.  The Clothing thus made is
sold at the cost price of the materials.  A wife, therefore, who makes
her husband’s shirts, may obtain it for little more than her own labour.
That this Society supplies a gap in the District Organization is not more
plain from the consideration that out of the 144 workers, whom it has
employed, 118 have been recommended by the Visitors, than from the
position which it has assumed, as a valuable coadjutor in the industrial
training of young females.  Under its auspices, many girls have been led
forward from plain to fine needle-work, and some who commenced by
experiments on aprons may now be trusted with the finish of a garment
requiring the neat performance of accomplished skill.  It has also proved
of considerable service by undertaking emigrant orders.  One family, in
particular, was indebted to its ready-made department to a large extent;
and thus not only enabled the Committee to dispose of a portion of their
superfluous stock, but benefitted themselves by procuring what they
wanted much cheaper and better than they could have done at the
outfitting shop.  Charitable persons using its agency to furnish clothes
for the Jennings’ Buildings and Gore Lane Schools, or, indeed, for the
poor at all, have the double satisfaction of knowing that they are doing
good, not merely by their gift, but by its preparation also; while to the
ladies superintending the cutting out and execution of the work, and
conducting its weekly sale, special thanks are tendered by the Committee,
who are not unaware of the time and regularity that so intricate a duty
must demand.  The sales alluded to have realized nearly £60, of which £7
13_s._ was received from the Depositors to the Clothing Fund.  Owing to
the change in the Collector, some subscriptions were omitted to be sent
for last year, and the consequence has been, that the receipts under that
head are less than those on former occasions; nevertheless, the accounts
have nearly balanced themselves, and there is no reason to imagine that
they will not entirely recover by the next audit.  It would be
uncourteous to close this retrospect of the Work Society, without
expressing its acknowledgments to the linen drapers of the town for their
continued disinterested and valuable assistance.

But the most resolute determination to preserve a position of
independence cannot always contend against the adverse vicissitudes of
life.  Sickness visits all in turn; and though a man may struggle through
the illnesses of wife and children, what is his resource when he is
himself struck down?  Must he, with a family heretofore respectably and
honestly supported—after his tools, furniture, and clothes are pawned,—be
at last consigned to what is, in fact, to him, the degradation of the
workhouse, or so pledge his future labour, under an accumulation of debt
incurred perforce, that all hope of future freedom from its load must, on
reasonable calculation, be shut out?  Judged even by the maxims of the
most rigid political economist, no less than by the diviner impulse of a
just compassion, indifference in such a case were not only _a crime_,
_but a blunder_.  For if by a judicious advance of money, it be possible
to procure that attendance, medicine, nourishment, and change of air,
required for the restoration of the sinking patient to his normal health,
it is clear that the productive energy, which is the immediate source of
national wealth, must be increased, by the same means that carry into
effect a paramount part of Christian obligation.  It is, therefore, very
satisfactory to find that while the number of cases relieved by the
Visitors during December, 1852, are less by one third than those of the
corresponding month in 1851; even of these considerably more than half
come under the category of sickness.  The analysis of the Visitors’ books
gives the following result of cases assisted in December last:—

      By         In age.    In poverty.      Out of      Sickness.
 employment.                                 work.
      13            32           31            36           156

This return is an abstract of the work in thirty-two Districts only, yet
in these, in one month, two hundred and sixty-eight families
participated, more or less, in the bounty of the Society.



PRACTICAL WORKING.


Numerous, however, as the visits indicated by these figures must
necessarily be, they afford but a very moderate criterion for estimating
those actually paid.  It is to the habitual intercourse established
between the Visitor and the Visited, an intercourse honourable and useful
to both parties, that all the higher results of the system are to be
traced.  This enables either to judge more truly of the other; disabuses
the poor of the prejudice that those above them in station are
universally proud, unfeeling, and isolated from their hopes, wants and
sympathies; and the rich of the impression that their humbler brethren
are envious, discontented, and ungrateful.  Mistakes are indeed committed
by inexperience, but gradually become rectified by longer acquaintance
and better knowledge.  Mutual understandings are established.  The
Christian Visitor is soon distinguished from the patronizing almoner, or
the salaried official.  His friendly interest ceases to be confounded
with intrusive curiosity—his proffers of amity with intentions to insult.
Only let a District lose, for a season, the services of its Visitor, and
the expression of regret is speedily made known.  It is not in human
nature to resist for a continuance the silent pleadings of an unvarying
kindness, manifested, not simply in encouraging what is good by advice
and approbation, but in discouraging what is evil by warning and
discountenance.  Influence follows, as a matter of course, and is used,
in most instances, under a solemn sense of responsibility for the
temporal and eternal welfare of those submitting to its sway.  House by
house, and room by room, the inmates of the cellar and the garret, are
brought into contact, and joined in bands of unity with their
fellow-Christians.  None but the vicious are held as outcasts, and for
the worst of these the means and place of repentance are religiously kept
open.  Liberty of Conscience is respected—Creed is no bar to aid; not
that the Christian Visitor is insensible to the dangers of rending, by
schisms, the Mystical Body of his Lord, but that he judgeth no man,
leaving him to his own master to stand or fall.  Conscious of his own
infirmities, he will be careful to enter on his ministrations in a devout
and lowly spirit; he will pray night and morning for a blessing on his
labours, and lay before the throne of Grace his special difficulties and
imperfections.  His aim is a high and spiritual mark; and though he may
not reach his standard fully, he keeps it in his view.  It is to
illustrate, in his own conduct, the beauty of holiness, and so to bring
to bear upon his charge the mute but telling teaching of example.
Courteous with the rude; consistent with the fickle; patient with the
perverse, meek with the passionate, forbearing censure with the
censorious; silent with the gossip; reverent with the scoffer; just and
impartial towards all;—ready with advice when sought; attentive to the
oft-told tale; kindling in sympathy with woe;—the fosterer of virtue; the
uplifter from vice; the promoter of repentance; the refuge of poverty—he
strives to show to others, in the mirror of his deeds, the character
themselves should be.  And when, in voluntary confidence, they seek his
further guidance, he leads them onward in the pathway of the Church.  By
his instrumentality the babe is brought to Holy Baptism when its mother
returns her thanks for safe delivery; the child is rescued from the
streets, and sent to school; elder boys and girls, induced to renew, in
Confirmation, their Baptismal vows; Prayer Books and Bibles provided for
those who require them, at reduced prices.  Public Worship and the
Sabbath rest, pressed home on the consciences of all, and the necessity
of the Lord’s Supper inculcated on the serious but timid believer, in
every case requiring further counsel and advice, he commends them to the
ministration of the Clergy, who are thus enabled to exercise a
supervision over the masses of their population that would be impossible
without some such intermediate agency.  Now informed in due order of each
occurrence of sickness, remorse, doubt, difficulty, and penitence, they
are able to bring to bear on the sufferers exhortation, argument, and
consolation, according as their circumstances demand.  Thus one by one
their flock are brought under their hand, not merely by a casual
visitation, but in their hours of need, when they might otherwise refrain
from sending for their pastor, however thankful to be tended by his
unrequested care.  Nor are such results of rare occurrence.  They are the
ordinary issues of systematic visiting.  In a well-regulated District, no
event of spiritual interest should escape notice; for without any attempt
at unseasonable intrusion, the rounds may be so arranged as to be both
regular and expected.  The Books and Tracts of the Lending Library should
be enquired after at least once a week, not necessarily to change them,
but to hear that all is well with those who read them.  Visitors who have
pursued this plan, and adopted its facilities for profitable
conversation, are not likely to let it fall into abeyance.  There can be
no doubt that their word in season, following directly upon the
impression produced by some pious work, may oftentimes have been the Holy
Spirit’s means of turning souls to God.  For this is the supreme end of
the Society; and if it fails in this, all its other successes are but
light in the balance, leaves not fruit, husks devoid of heart or kernel.



PRACTICAL RESULTS.


Outward tests of soundness in the one thing needful, must be mainly
sought in reverence for the Lord’s Day, in appreciation of His appointed
ordinances, and attendance at Public Worship.  With some of the smaller
tradespeople, who formerly were accustomed to keep open their shops, and
drive their usual trade on Sunday, the persuasions of the Visitors have
been effectual in procuring an entire cessation of business; and others,
who have not strength of principle wholly to forego their profits,
trusting to the blessing of the Lord, have yet been influenced, by the
prevailing sense of decorum, to intermit their sale during the hours of
Divine Service.  So, too, as the Church accommodation has been enlarged,
Church-goers have increased.  Within a comparatively short period, it was
mockery to reprove a poor man for not attending the House of Prayer;
there was no room for him.  Of late years a change has taken place: three
new churches have been built; they are all filled; another is required.
The free seats, extended as they have been at St. Mary’s, are crowded;
Christ Church, consecrated but eighteen months ago, has in the morning
scarcely a vacant bench.  Its opening must have provided for several
hundred Churchmen, formerly wanderers from Church to Church.  The
Register of Baptisms presents rather an increased than a diminished
average; but there must be a progressive augmentation in its entrances,
before it can be considered as a satisfactory record.  There exists a
tendency amongst the ignorant to confound Registration with Baptism, and
many believe that the civil supersedes the religions ceremony.  After all
the exertions of the Visitors to diffuse information on this subject, and
to awaken the Christian sensibilities of the parents to the importance of
the Sacrament, their returns exhibit a catalogue of nearly one hundred
children unbaptized.  And though many of these are infants, and some the
offspring of Baptists, enough remain to demonstrate what would soon
become the spiritual condition of the people, were their vigilance to
sleep, or their admonitions to be withdrawn.  The candidates for
Confirmation at the last celebration of the Rite, were more numerous than
usual; and drew forth the commendation of the Bishop for their devotional
propriety of demeanour.  To the greater proportion of those admitted to
the Sacred Ordinance, it has been the door and vestibule of the Holy
Communion of the Body and Blood of their Redeemer.  Hence, amongst other
causes, there has accrued an accession to the Communicants of the
District, the approximate estimate founded on the Easter Administrations,
being in 1851, 614, in 1852, 670.  The total attendances at both Churches
was 5423.  Nor must it be supposed that these are furnished solely from
the pew-holders in the Congregations; the humblest ranks are represented,
and form, though a minority, one that is both respectable and slowly
increasing.  No habitual receiver of the Blessed Sacrament can fail to
have been struck with the gratifying sight afforded by the regular
presence and devout behaviour of a class of young men, who commonly
furnish a fifth of the Communicants at St. Mary Abbott’s, on the third
Sunday in the month; a class which, however independent of the actual
working of the Society, owes both its formation and guidance to the zeal
and perseverance of not the least active or efficient Member of its
Committee.

Here then the Committee close their Review, under a conviction that they
have established a claim upon the generous consideration of their fellow
Parishioners.  The facts enumerated speak for themselves.  No force of
eloquence, no appeals to sentiment are required to enhance their value.
They satisfy the head—they ought to influence the heart; for if it be a
duty at once acknowledged and indisputable to exercise charity by
clothing the naked, feeding the hungry, raising the fallen, helping the
weak, educating the young, and visiting the sick, the widow, and the
fatherless in affliction, there must abide an awful responsibility on
those, who not only decline to do so personally, but refuse to strengthen
the hands of others dedicating time and energy to these works of love.
To all such, if such there be, the Committee may reasonably say, You are
living surrounded by a large and necessitous population, the
representatives in their poverty and suffering of the Saviour Who died
for your Redemption—He, in the wisdom of His Providential ordering, made
you to differ from the meanest of that multitude, granted you ability,
wealth, industry, position, character, for the express purpose of
enabling you, as followers of Him, to bear their burdens.  Occupation,
business, pleasure, health, or feeling, may preclude you from taking
direct part in the discharge of this your trust.  By habits and
temperament you may be unfitted for personal ministration.  Let, then,
this Association be your almoner.  It acts under the Presidency of your
Vicar, and the superintendence of a Committee of Laymen like yourselves.
It is pledged to investigate the fact and cause of each alleged distress,
to turn your bounty to its best account, to apply it with a cautious
tenderness, a discreet forbearance.  Chosen from the gently nurtured and
the educated, its dispensers bear it to hearths and beds of real
privation, and unsimulated disease.  Witnessing the extremes of pain, and
woe, and want; entering abodes whence less unselfish pity might turn away
disgusted; carrying the message of peace and hope to the broken-hearted
and despairing; it is _theirs_ to imitate the Divine Example, and go
about doing good—should it not be _yours_ to emulate their labours,
sustain their efforts, and extend their power in well-doing?  Can it be
right, or wise, or just, or patriotic, or Christian, to allow them,
whatever be their earnestness, self-denial, or single-mindedness, to
visit and relieve the Lazarus of your own door, uncheered by your
sympathies, unaccompanied by your prayers, unprovided with your alms?
Let each one answer for himself.

In conclusion, the Committee would humbly commend the future proceedings
of the Society to the compassionate care of that Lord, who being rich
unto all, has blessed its operations to the present date, beseeching Him
to overrule its plans and works to His own everlasting glory and the
final salvation of those who now and hereafter shall regulate, subserve
or benefit by, the ministrations of that abounding charity, which it is
its especial object to stimulate, develope, and control.



APPENDIX A.


All experience tends to prove a probable connection between dirt and
vice.  There is truth in the proverb, “Cleanliness is next to godliness.”
We have the warrant of Holy Writ, for stating that men love darkness
rather than light because their deeds are evil.  In every attempt to
elevate the inhabitants of a neglected District, respect must be had to
its sanitary arrangements.  No exertion ought to be spared to procure for
it water, light, and systematic cleansing; against the demoralizing
overcrowding of single rooms the most stringent clauses of the Lodging
House Act should be rigidly enforced.  The following extracts from the
Visitors’ Reports certify how these obstacles impede any permanent
improvement in the physical condition of the poor in the less favoured
parts of the Parish, and bring out in strong relief the existence of
evils requiring the attention of the local authorities, if not the
intervention of the Legislature to ameliorate or remove, as wholly
unworthy of a civilized community.

“In this district there is much and constant illness in consequence of
bad drainage, and the entrance of the court is almost impassable in wet
weather for want of paving.”

“Five out of nine houses in my District are totally unsupplied with
water, and the inmates have either to buy or borrow of their neighbours.
I feel the uselessness, of impressing upon the people the advantages of
cleanliness, when such drawbacks as I have mentioned come to the
assistance of their naturally dirty habits.”

“In this eight-roomed house forty people, men, women and children, live.
Eleven human beings are crowded into a small low-roofed garret; the walls
decaying from want of paint; the mother and children a heap of dirt and
rags.  The landlord has been remonstrated with again and again to have
the house cleaned which is in a hopelessly dirty condition.”

“This street has been much improved by being lately paved.  It is now
kept clearer by the people, and is quieter than formerly.”



APPENDIX B.


_The Treasurer in Account with the Church of England District Visiting
Society_—1852.

1852. (DR.)                                       £        _s._   _d._
Balance from 1851                                22          16      6
To Subscriptions       247     14         0
Donations               23     16         0
Alms Boxes              41      8         3
Sixpenny Deposits        8     10         6
on Loan of
Blankets for
cleaning, 1851
and 1852
Sales of Bibles          1     13         0
and Prayer Books
Interest from            0      8         9
Savings Bank
Collections after       85     17         9
Sermons
                                                409           8      3
PROVIDENT FUNDS:—
To Deposits for Coals                           185     10           4
To Deposits for Clothes                          85     11           9
                                               £703      6          10

                                * * * * *

1852. (CR.)                                                                  £        _s._   _d._
District Grants, from Jan. to Dec. 1852                                    289          17      0
GENERAL EXPENSES:—
Stationery and Printing                            20         1     9
Purchase of Books                                   0        15     0
Messenger                                           1         8     0
Ellis’s Gratuity for 1851                           3         3     0
Ellis, Collector’s Commission                      13        11     6
Tisdall, E., Scouring and Storing Blankets         10         2     6
for 1851
                                                                            49           1      9
Haines, Mr., Wine for the Sick                                               1           3      0
PROVIDENT FUNDS:—
By Coals                                     208        19          7
Deposits Returned                              8         8          5
Stationery and Printing                        4         2          9
                                                                           221     10           9
Tradesmen’s Bills for Clothes, as per         91        19          9
Tickets
Deposits returned                              7         2          5
Stationery and Printing                        2        16          3
                                                                           101     18           5
Salary of Receiver of Deposits                                              20      0           0
                                                                           683     10          11
Balance, 31st December, 1852                                                19     15          11
                                                                          £703      6          10

            Examined and found correct, JAMES WESTON, AUDITOR.



APPENDIX C.


Rev. H. HOLME WESTMORE, _Treasurer_, _in Account with Jennings’ Building
School_.

1852. (DR.)                                            £   _s._   _d._
Collections at St. Mary Abbott’s on the 9th of        66      4      3
May
Advanced by the Vicar                                 24      7      0
Subscriptions and Donations as shown in the           91      5      1
List annexed
                                                    £182      6      4

                                * * * * *

1852. (CR.)                                            £   _s._   _d._
Balance due to the Treasurer at the end of the        11      9     5½
year 1851
Bread                                                  9      8      8
Stipend of School-Master                              70      0      0
Sundries                                               1     15      2
Rent                                                  10      8      0
Coal, Wood, &c.                                        3      7      8
Stationery and Books                                   5     12      9
Sempstress                                             6     10      0
Cleaning the School                                    2     12      0
Clothing                                               2     12      0
Repaid the Treasurer—see Statement for 1851           57      0      0
                                                     180     15     8½
                                Balance in hand        1     10     7½
                                                    £182      6      4

Audited and found correct by me,
February 20th, 1853.  HENRY GEORGE.

  _Subscriptions and Donations to the Jennings’ Buildings School in the
                               year_ 1852.

                                                       £   _s._   _d._
Archdeacon Sinclair, Vicar                             3      3      0
Abercrombie, Miss, Kensington-square (Donation)        1      0      0
Abercrombie, Miss K., Kensington-square                1      0      0
(Donation)
Alms-box in School room                                0      4      1
Back, The Rev. Henry, Kensington                       1      1      0
Bathurst, Mr., Vale place, Hammersmith, (A            30      0      0
Donation from the “Dunlop Trust”)
Bell, Miss, Hornton-street                             0     10      6
Boyd, Mrs., 5, Gordon-terrace                          0      5      0
Clarke, Mr., 37, Kensington-square                     1      1      0
Codd, Miss, 2, Campden-hill Road                       0      2      6
Codd, Miss Shirley, 2, Campden-hill Road               0      2      6
Colbeck, Mr., 12, Hornton-street                       0     10      0
Colbeck, Mr., ditto (Donation)                         5      0      0
Cole, Mrs., The Terrace                                0     10      0
Cooke, Mr., The Ferns, Victoria-road                   1      1      0
Cotton, Mr., 10, Kensington-square                     0     10      0
Cripps, Mrs. W., 9, Gordon-terrace                     1      1      0
Croad, Major, Forest-house                             1      1      0
Croad, Major, ditto (Donation)                         0      5      0
Davies, The Rev. S. Price                              1      1      0
Desbarres, Mr., Wyndham-villa                          0     10      0
Disbrowe, Miss, Kensington-palace                      0      5      0
England, Miss, by Miss Hare, Upper                     1      0      0
Phillimore-place
Ferrar, Mrs., Gordon-terrace                           0     10      6
Firmin, Miss, 15, Hornton-street                       0     10      0
A Friend, by Mrs. Paynter (Donation)                   5      0      0
A Friend by Archdeacon Sinclair (ditto)                1      0      0
A Friend, by . . . ditto (ditto)                       1     10      0
A Friend, by . . . ditto (ditto)                       1      1      0
A Friend, by Archdeacon Sinclair (Donation)            1      0      0
Friends, by . . . ditto (ditto)                        6      0      0
Gee, Mrs. 5, Victoria-road                             0     10      0
Godfrey, Mrs., Douro-place                             0      5      0
Good, Mr., Palace-green                                1      0      0
J., by H. H. W.                                        5      0      0
Jackson, Mrs., 3, Sheffield-terrace                    0      5      0
Jones, Mr., 18, Victoria-road                          0     10      6
Kershaw, The Rev. L.                                   0      8      0
Knight, Mrs. Bedford-place                             0      5      0
Litt, Miss, Kensington-square                          1      0      0
Merriman, Mr., 45, Kensington-square                   1      1      0
Merriman, Mr. J. N., 7, Kensington square              1      1      0
Murray, Mrs., 23, Newland-street                       0     10      0
Prendergast, Miss Mary, Norland-square                 0      2      6
Penny, Mrs., 12, Upper Phillimore-place                1      1      0
Rathbone, Miss, 15, Lower Phillimore-place             5      0      0
(Donation)
Rogers, Miss, 7, Albert-place, Victoria-road           0      5      0
Sheppard, Mrs., 5, Ladbroke-place West,                0     10      0
Notting-hill
Sheppard, Miss, ditto ditto                            0     10      0
Thornton, Mrs. Edward, 5, Kensington-gate              0     10      0
(Donation)
Tudor, Mr., Bedford-place                              0      5      0
Vincent, Mrs., Upper Phillimore-place                  0     10      0
Vincent, Mr. George, ditto                             0     10      0
Waddilove, Mrs., Ladbroke-place West,                  0      5      0
Notting-hill
Warner, Mr., 9, Kensington-square                      0      5      0
Watson, Miss, Bath-place                               1      1      0
White, Miss, 11, Pembroke-road                         1      0      0
Willis, Miss, Palace-green                             0     10      0
                                                     £91     15      1

APPENDIX D.


_The_ REV. J. H. SPERLING, _in Account with the Christ Church National
Schools_, _in Gore Lane_.

1852. (DR.)                                            £   _s._   _d._
Donations and Annual Subscriptions                    42     12      6
Special Donations for the Purchase of the             92     14      0
Infant School
Collection at Christ Church, June 27th                18     14     9½
Share of Collection at St. Mary Abbott’s,             14     11      0
Sept. 25
Christ Church Alms Boxes                               2      4      2
Children’s Pence                                      10     16      4
Girls’ Needlework                                      2      3      0
                                                     183     15     9½
                       Balance due to Treasurer       41      1     3½
                                                    £224     17      1

                                * * * * *

1852. (CR.)                                     £   _s._   _d._
Balance due to Treasurer, January 1st          24     18      1
Master’s Salary                                52     10      0
Mistress’ Salary                               16      7      0
Collector’s Poundage                            2      2      0
Books, Stationery, and School Materials        11      1     5½
Fuel                                            3     15     6½
Bookcases and Table                             9      0      0
Purchase of Infant School                      97      0      0
Rent of Infant School, 1½ years                 7     10      0
Insurance of Infant School                      0     13      0
                                             £224     17      1

Examined and found correct,
February 10th, 1853.  GEO. WARNER.

_Subscriptions and Donations to the Christ Church National Schools in
Gore Lane_, 1852.

                                                     £   _s._   _d._
The Venerable Archdeacon Sinclair                    2      2      0
Abud, W. T., Esq.                                    0     10      0
Browne, A., Esq.                                     0     10      0
Bunyon, C., Esq.                                     1      1      0
Bunyon, Mrs.                                         0     10      0
Boyd, Mrs.                                           0      5      0
Bannester, — Esq.                                    1      0      0
Cooke, E. W., Esq., R.A.                             1      1      0
Cole, Mrs. H.                                        0     10      0
Cope, C. W., Esq., R.A.                              1      0      0
Croad, Major                                         1      1      0
Disbrowe, Miss                                       2      0      0
Dodd, — Esq.                                         0     10      6
Dodd, Mrs.                                           0     10      6
Frankum, H. H., Esq.                                 0     10      6
Frankum, Mrs.                                        0     10      6
Friend, by Mrs. Mayne                                0     10      0
Gee, Mrs.                                            0     10      0
Gordon, Lord F. Hallyburton                          1      0      0
Gordon, Lady Augusta                                 1      0      0
Green, Mrs.                                          0      5      0
Hildyard, Mrs.                                       1      0      0
Hooper, Esq.                                         0     10      0
Inverness, Her Grace the Duchess of (Donation)       1      0      0
Jones, C. A., Esq.                                   0     10      6
Jones, Miss                                          0     10      0
Kidd, R. C., Esq.                                    0      5      0
Kite, The Misses                                     0      5      0
Kingdom, W. Esq.                                     1      0      0
Lady, — per Archdeacon                               1      0      0
Merriman, J., Esq.                                   1      1      0
Moore, Mrs. Carrick                                  0     10      0
Morton, — Esq.                                       0     10      0
Pearse, J., Esq.                                     1      0      0
Philp, Mrs.                                          0     10      0
Plasket, T. H., Esq.                                 1      1      0
Ramadge, Mrs., 1851 and 1852                         1      1      0
Redgrave, Mrs.                                       0     10      0
Redgrave, Miss                                       0      5      0
Rendel, Mrs.                                         1      0      0
Rowley, Mrs.                                         0     10      0
Sperling, J. Esq. (Donation)                         1      1      0
Sperling, Rev. J. H.                                 1      1      0
Taylor, Lady (Donation)                              2      0      0
Turner, Mrs.                                         1      0      0
Vallotton, H. L., Esq.                               1      1      0
Vallotton, Mrs., for 1851                            0     10      6
Vallotton, Miss                                      0     10      0
Willis, Mrs.                                         1      0      0
Watson, J., Esq.                                     1      1      0
Weston, J., Esq.                                     1      0      0
Weston, A., Esq., Jun.                               0     10      6
Weston, Mrs.                                         0     10      0
Weston, The Misses                                   0     12      0
                                                    42     12      6

                                * * * * *

         _Donations in aid of the Purchase of the Lower School_.

A Lady, by Archdeacon Sinclair         5      0     0
Miss White, Pembroke-road             10      0     0
A Lady, by Archdeacon Sinclair         5      0     0
E. W. Cooke, Esq., R.A.                3      3     0
A Friend, by Archdeacon Sinclair      10      0     0
Lady Caroline Lascelles               50      0     0
Miss Watson                            5      0     0
A Friend, per Archdeacon               2      1     0
A Remembrance of a beloved Wife        2     10     0
                                      92     14     0

APPENDIX E.


_The Treasurer in Account with the Work Society_.

1852. DR.                          £   _s._   _d._
Subscriptions and Donations       34      6      1
Clothes Sold                      59     19     3½
                                 £94      5     4½

                                * * * * *

1852. (CR.)                          £   _s._   _d._
Adverse Balance from last year       1      1     4½
Paid to Workers                     26      0     11
For Materials                       65      7     4½
Printing, Stationery, &c.            1      3      5
Collectors and Messengers            0     19      9
                                    94     12     10
                                    94      5     4½
                Adverse Balance      0      7     5½

Examined, and found correct, by me,
Feb. 7th, 1853.  S. PRICE DAVIES.

_List of Subscriptions and Donations to the Parochial Work Society_,
1852.

                               Donations.          Subscriptions
                               £   _s._   _d._       £   _s._   _d._
The Venerable                                        1      1      0
Archdeacon Sinclair
Mrs. Abercrombie                                     0      5      0
The Misses Abercrombie                               0      5      0
Mrs. Abud                                            0      2      6
Mrs. Frederick Barlow                                0      5      0
Mrs. Boyd                                            0      5      0
Mrs. Bunyon                                          0      5      0
Mrs. Clarke                                          0      2      6
Miss Clarke                                          0      2      6
Mrs. Colbeck                                         0      5      0
Mrs. H. Cole                                         0      2      6
Miss M. Cooke                                        0      5      0
Mrs. C. W. Cope                                      0      5      0
Mrs. Cotton                                          0      5      0
Mrs. R. B. Cunnyngham          0      2      6
Miss Cunningham                0      2      6
Rev. J. Price Davies                                 0      5      0
Admiral Deacon                                       0      5      0
Mrs. Deacon                                          0      5      0
Miss Deacon                                          0      5      0
Mrs. Des Barres                                      0      5      0
Mrs. Disbrowe                  0     15      0       0      5      0
Miss M. Forbes                                       0      2      6
Mrs. John Gee                                        0      5      0
Mrs. George                                          0      5      0
Miss Giles                                           0      5      0
The Misses Good                                      0      5      0
Mrs. Joseph Goodeve                                  0      5      0
Mrs. Grafton                                         0      5      0
Mrs. John Green                0      2      6
Mr. B. Robart Hall                                   0      5      0
Mrs. Hessey                                          0      5      0
Miss Howlett                                         0      5      0
J. H.                          0      3      6
Miss Jones                                           0      5      0
Mrs. Aston Key                                       0      5      0
Mrs. Mc Dougall                0      1      0
Mrs. Montgomery Martin                               0      5      0
Mrs. Melladew                  0      2      6
Mrs. Merriman                                        0      2      6
Mrs. J. N. Merriman                                  0      5      0
Mrs. George Ogle                                     0      5      0
Mrs. W. Payne                                        0      5      0
Mrs. Paynter                                         0      5      0
Mrs. Penny                                           0      5      0
Miss Phillips                                        0      5      0
Mrs. Philp                                           0      5      0
Miss M. Redgrove                                     0      2      6
Miss Robertson                                       0      2      6
Mrs. Rougement                                       0      5      0
Mrs. Alexander                                       0      5      0
Rougement
Mrs. Senior                    0      5      0
Mrs. Shaw                                            0      5      0
Mrs. Sulivan                                         0      5      0
Lady Taylor                                          1      0      0
Mrs. Thew                                            0      5      0
Mr. Thompson (The                                    0     10      0
Terrace)
Mrs. Vallotton                                       0      5      0
Mrs. Warner                                          0      5      0
Miss Watson                                          1      1      0
Mrs. Weston                                          0      5      0
Miss Weston                                          0      2      6
Mrs. E. Willis                                       0      5      0
Mrs. George Willock                                  0      5      0
From District Visitors        15      2      7
National School, for           1     10      0
Work
Mrs. Hutt, for Work            0      4      6
                             £18     11      7     £15      4      6

APPENDIX F.


_Kensington Parochial Nursery_, _Statement of the Account_.

1852. (DR.)                          £   _s._   _d._
To Balance from 1851                 1      4      4
Subscriptions and Donations         46      5      0
Pence from Parents of Infants       21     19      3
                                    69      8      7
               Adverse Balance       4     18     0½
                                   £74      6     7½

                                * * * * *

1852. (CR.)               £   _s._   _d._
By Rent                  28     10      0
Nurses                   32     13      4
Household Expenses       13      3     3½
                        £74      6     7½

Audited, and found correct, by me,
Feb. 4, 1853.  S. PRICE DAVIES.

                                * * * * *

*** Subscriptions will be received by the Revs. the Curates; any member
of the Ladies’ Committee; at the Committee-Room of the National School,
on any Friday, from Twelve to One o’clock; or at the Nursery, Great Grove
House, High Street.

_List of Subscribers and Donors to the Kensington Parochial Nursery_,
_for the year_ 1852.

                                                       £   _s._   _d._
The Venerable Archdeacon Sinclair, The Vicarage        1      1      0
Abercrombie, Mrs., 25, Kensington-square               0      5      0
Abud, Mrs., 15, Sussex-place                           0      5      0
Allt, Miss, 36, Kensington-square                      0      2      6
Ansdell, Richard, Esq., 7, Victoria-road               0      5      0
Arnold, Miss, 20, High-street                          0      2      6
Auldjo, Mrs. T. Richardson, Noel-house                 0      5      0
A Friend                                               0      1      0
Bailey, Mr. Charles, 45, High-street                   0      2      6
Ball, Miss, 6, Bath-place                              0      2      6
Ball, Mr. Edward, 26, High-street                      0      2      6
Bancroft, Miss, 5, Hyde-park-terrace                   0      5      0
Bannister, Mrs., 6, Campden-grove                      0      2      6
Banting, William, Esq., 4, The Terrace                 0      5      0
Barlow, F. Pratt, Esq., 24, Kensington-square          0      5      0
Beaver, Mrs. E., 16, Leonard-place                     0      2      6
Bedford, The Duchess Dowager of, Bedford-lodge         0     10      0
Bellamy, Mrs., 12, Hyde-park-gate South                0      5      0
Bennington, Mrs., 2, Victoria-road                     0      5      0
Biggar, The Misses, 3, Allen-terrace                   0     10      0
Birch, Mr. William, 10, The Terrace                    0      2      6
Boden, Mrs. G., 18, St. George’s-terrace               0      2      6
Boyd, Mrs., 5, Gordon-terrace                          0      2      6
Brassington, Mr. John, 27, High-street                 0      2      6
Breeze, Mrs., High-street                              0      2      6
Buckmaster, Mrs., 16, Holland-street                   0      5      0
Bunyon, Mrs. C. J., 7, Hyde-park-gate South            0      5      0
C. J. F., Esq.                                         0      2      6
Callcott, Mrs., The Mall                               0      2      6
Callcott, Miss, 2, Campden-grove                       0      2      6
Chalmers, Mrs., 2, Ladbroke-place West                 0      2      0
(Donation)
Clarke, Mrs., 17, Kensington-square                    0      5      0
Clarke, Mrs., 15, Campden-grove (Donation)             0     10      0
Codd, Miss, 2, Campden-house-road                      0      2      6
Colbeck, Mrs., 12, Hornton-street                      0      5      0
Cole, Mrs. Henry, 1, The Terrace                       0      5      0
Cooke, E. W., Esq., The Ferns, Victoria-road           0      5      0
Cooke, Miss Mary, Ditto ditto                          0      5      0
Cooper, Mrs., 26, Lower Phillimore-place               0      2      6
Cope, Mrs. C. W., 19, Hyde-park-gate South             0      5      0
Crampton, Mrs., 27, Sussex-place                       0      5      0
Crane, Mrs., 16, Scarsdale-terrace                     0      2      6
Crosse, Mrs. H., 8, The Terrace                        0      2      6
Crosse, Miss, Ditto                                    0      5      0
Cundell, Mrs., 6, Sussex-place                         0      5      0
Cunningham, Mrs. Allen, 2, Madeley Villas              0      5      0
Curzon, The Hon. Mrs. Edward, Scarsdale-house          0     10      0
Davies, The Rev. S. Price, 17, Lower                   0      5      0
Phillimore-place
Deacon, Mrs., 12, Leonard-place                        0      5      0
Deacon, Miss, Ditto                                    0      5      0
Desbarres, Mrs. W. H.                                  0      5      0
Disbrowe, Lady (Donation)                              0      5      0
Disbrowe, Miss, Kensington-palace                      1      0      0
Ditto Ditto (Donation)                                 5      8      0
Ditto Ditto (Collected by)                             0     15      6
Donation Box in the Nursery                            0      8      0
Edwards, Mrs., 31, Upper Phillimore-place              0      5      0
Ellis, Miss, 42, Kensington-square                     0      2      6
Elteen, Mrs., High-street                              0      2      6
Evans, Mrs., 13, Sussex-place                          0      2      0
Ferrar, Mrs., 3, Gordon-terrace                        0      2      6
Firmin, Miss, 15, Hornton-street                       0     10      0
Fletcher, Mrs., 8, Notting-hill-square                 0      2      6
Fletcher, John, Esq., 22, Upper                        0      5      0
Phillimore-place
Frankum, Mrs., 12, Sussex-place                        0      5      0
Freem, Mr. Edward, 23, High-street                     0      2      6
Freeman, Mr. Robert, 17, High-street                   0      2      6
Frost, Mrs. George, 28, Kensington-square              0      5      0
Giles, Miss, 26, Kensington-square                     0      5      0
Gloyne, Mr. C. G., The Terrace                         0      2      6
Good, Mrs. William, 5, Hyde park-terrace               0      5      0
Goodeve, Mrs. Joseph, 41, Kensington-square            0      5      0
Grafton, Mrs., 11, Sheffield-terrace                   0      2      6
Haines, Mr. John, High-street                          0      2      6
Hall, Miss, 2, Kensington-square                       0      2      6
Hampshire, Mrs., 10, Sussex-place                      0      3      0
Hansler, Mrs., 32, Upper Phillimore-place              0      2      6
Hepburn, Mrs., 8, Hornton-street                       0      5      0
Hessey, Mrs., 27, Kensington-square                    0      5      0
Hockly, Mrs., 8, Pembroke-road                         0      2      6
Hoof, Mrs., Madeley-house                              0      5      0
Hook, Mrs., Tor Villa, Campden-hill                    0      2      6
Hopetoun, The Countess of, Niddry-lodge                0     10      0
Horsley, Mrs., 1, High-row                             0      2      6
Horsley, Mrs. J. C., The Mall                          0      2      6
Hotchkin, Mrs., The Mall                               0      2      6
Howlett, Miss, 9, Young-street                         0      5      0
Hughes, Mrs., 29, Upper Phillimore-place               0      2      6
Hughes, Mr. William, 50, High-street                   0      2      6
Ingram, Mrs., 5, Kensington-square                     0      5      0
Jackson, Mrs. W. H., 3, Sheffield-terrace              0      5      0
Jackson, Admiral, 21, Hornton-street                   0     10      0
Jackson, Mrs. Howard, 8, St. George’s-terrace          0      2      6
Jenings, Mrs., 2, The Terrace                          0      5      0
Jones, Miss, 18, Victoria-road                         0      5      0
Judson, Mr. W., 30, High-street                        0      2      6
Key, Mrs. Aston, 40, The Square                        0      2      6
Kingston, Mrs., 8, Scarsdale-terrace                   0      2      6
Lascelles, The Lady Caroline, Bute-house,              0     10      0
Campden-hill
Legrew, Miss, Ladbroke-place West (Donation)           0      2      6
Litt, The Misses, 42, Kensington-square                0      5      0
Lomas, Mr. J. H., 34, High-street                      0      2      6
Lomax, Mrs., 19, Victoria-road                         0      2      6
Ludlow, Mrs., 21, Kensington square                    0      2      6
Lugar, Mrs. R., 19, Pembroke-square                    0      2      6
Lyon, Mrs., 23, Sussex-place                           0      2      0
McDermott, Mrs. W. H., 8, Gordon-place                 0      3      0
Melliss, Mrs., 9, St. George’s-terrace                 0      2      0
Merriman, Mrs., 45, Kensington-square                  0      5      0
Merriman, Mrs. James, 7, Kensington-square             0      5      0
Moore, Mrs. J. Carrick, 4, Hyde-park-gate              0      5      0
Morgan, Miss                                           0     10      0
Morris, Mr. John, 29, High-street                      0      2      6
Mortimer, Mrs. Roger, 23, Notting-hill-square          0      5      0
Mortimer, Mrs., 11, Leonard-place                      0      2      6
Palmer, Mrs., 15, Victoria-road                        0      2      6
Pearse, Christopher, Esq., 25, Sussex-place            1      0      0
Penny, Mrs., 12, Upper Phillimore-place                0      5      0
Philp, Mrs., Colby-house                               0      5      0
Pollock, Mrs., 7, Bath-place                           0      5      0
Pope, Mrs., 6, Lower Phillimore-place                  0      2      6
Rayner, Mrs., 16, Upper Phillimore-place               0      2      6
Redgrave, Mrs. Richard, 18, Hyde-park-gate             0      5      0
South
Redgrave, Miss, 16, Hyde-park-gate South               0      2      6
Reynolds, Mrs., 15½, Holland-street                    6      2      6
Richards, Miss, 39, Kensington-square                  0      5      0
Robertson, Miss, 14, Sheffield-terrace                 0      2      6
Rougemont, Mrs., Wright’s Lane                         0     10      0
Rougemont, Miss, Ditto                                 0      5      0
Rougemont, Mrs. D. Alexander, 23,                      0      5      0
Kensington-square
Russell, Francis, Esq., 12, Douro-place                0      5      0
Russell, Mrs., 1, Gordon-place                         0      2      6
Saintsbury, Miss, 42, Pembridge Villas,                0      5      0
Bayswater
Senior, Mrs., 9, Hyde-park-gate                        0      5      0
Shaw, Mrs. William, Wycombe-lodge                      0      5      0
Shepherd, Mrs., 46, High-street                        0      2      6
Silver, James, Esq., Addison-road                      0      5      0
Slade, Mrs., 32, Sussex-place                          0      2      6
Slater, Mr., High-street                               0      5      0
Smith, Mrs. Browning, 45, Bedford-place                0      2      6
Stainton, Mrs. R., 3, Hyde-park-gate South             0      5      0
Symons, Mrs. Charles, 10, Young-street                 0      5      0
Taylor, Lady, St. Katharine’s-lodge                    1      0      0
Taylor, Mrs., Little Campden-house                     0      2      6
Thew, Mrs., 21, Hyde-park-gate South                   0      5      0
Thompson, Mrs. Frederick, St. George’s Terrace         0      5      0
Thompson, Mr. J., 3, The Terrace                       0      2      6
Toms, Mrs., The Terrace                                0      2      6
Turner, J. W., Esq., 31, Lower Phillimore-place        0      3      0
(Donation)
Turner, Mrs. J. W., Ditto                              0      5      0
Turnley, Mrs. Henry, 5, The Terrace                    0      5      0
Uwins, Mrs., St. Alban’s-road (Donation)               0      2      0
Vincent, H. W., Esq., Thornwood-lodge                  0     10      0
Vincent, The Misses, Ditto                             0     10      0
Vincent, Mrs., 1, Upper Phillimore-place               0      5      0
Ward, Mrs. Ogier, 9, Leonard-place                     0      2      6
Warner, Mrs., 9, Kensington-square                     0      5      0
Warner, Miss, Ditto                                    0      5      0
Watson, Miss, 3, Bath-place                            1      0      0
Watson, Joseph, Esq., 8, Hyde-park-gate                0      5      0
Webster, Mrs., The Mall                                0      2      6
Weston, Mrs. James, 12, Hyde-park-gate                 0      5      0
White, Mrs. 11, St. George’s-terrace                   0      2      6
Willis, Mrs. E., Palace-green                          0      5      0
Willis, Mrs. James, 24, Victoria-road                  0      2      6
Willock, Mrs. George, Vicarage-place                   0      5      0
Winn, The Hon. Mrs., 9, Pembroke-road                  0      5      0
Wyllie, Mrs., 1, Douro-place                           0      5      0
Young Ladies of Miss Forbes’ Establishment,            0     10      0
Vicarage-place
Ditto Ditto                                            0     10      0
                                                     £46      5      0

KENSINGTON MATERNAL SOCIETY,


_For providing Child-bed Linen and other suitable Articles of Clothing_,
_for the use of poor Married Women during the month of their
Confinement_.

At a meeting of the Friends of this Society on the 6th of December, 1848,
the following Rules were agreed to:—

I.  That this Society shall be called the Kensington (St. Mary Abbott’s,)
Maternal Society.

II.  That its affairs shall be managed by a Committee, Treasurer, and
Secretary.

III.  That the Ladies taking charge of the Bags of Linen shall form an
Honorary Committee, to meet twice a year, viz.;—the first Wednesday in
March, and the last in November, after Morning service, at the National
School, or oftener in case of necessity.

IV.  That the Committee shall appoint a Treasurer to make the necessary
purchases on behalf of the Society, and to superintend the disposal of
the same.

V.  That the Treasurer’s Account shall be submitted to the Committee at
the Half-yearly Meetings.

VI.  That the Lady Visitors of the Kensington District Society shall be
requested to support this Charity, to visit Persons in their respective
Districts assisted by the same, and to afford them relief, as in other
cases, at their own discretion.

VII.  That the Meetings of the Committee shall begin and end with Prayer,
and shall be open to receive any Lady Subscriber or Donor who may wish to
attend.

VIII.  That no woman shall be considered eligible for this Charity who
has not resided in the Parish for one year.  No woman to be assisted with
her first Child, or the first by her second husband.

IX.  Applicants to bring a recommendation from a Subscriber, and also, in
consequence of recent frauds, a Card from their District Visitor.

X.  The Bag of Linen to contain the usual Articles, and to be lent for
four weeks; if returned in good order, a roll of Baby Linen given as an
encouragement.

XI.  The Bag of Linen not to be kept because bespoken, if required by
another Person; the first applicant to be recommended to some other lady
for a Bag.

XII.  Applicants to receive suitable tracts sanctioned by the Archdeacon;
a new Testament lent with the Bag; and an account kept of the number of
Persons assisted by the Society during the Year.


LADIES TAKING CHARGE OF BAGS, 1853.

Mrs. Cope, 19, Hyde Park Gate South     1
Mrs. Merriman, 45, The Square           2
Mrs. Clarke, 17, The Square             1
Mrs. Barlow, 24, The Square             1
Mrs. Aston Key, 40, Kensington Square   1
Mrs. Sheppard, 5, Ladbroke Place West   1
Mrs. Grafton, 14, Sheffield Terrace     1
Miss Codd, 2, Camden Road               2
Mrs. Pollock, 7, Bath Place             1
Mrs. Cripps, 9, Gordon Place            1
Mrs. Woodcock, 7, High Street           2
Mrs. Lloyd, 4, Upper Phillimore Place   1
Mrs. Stephens, 23, Victoria Road        1

Treasurer and Secretary.
The MISSES WHITE, 11, Pembroke Road.


Subscriptions and Donations thankfully received by the Treasurer, or may
be called for by the Collector, ALFRED ELLIS, 16, Lower Phillimore Place.

    _Treasurer in Account with the Kensington Maternal Society_.—1852.

(DR.)                             £   _s._   _d._
Subscriptions and Donations      19      5      0
                                 19      5      0

                                * * * * *

(CR.)              £   _s._   _d._
Materials         13      9      5
Work               4     15      7
Collector          1      0      0
                 £19      5      0

Audited, and found correct, by me,
December 23rd, 1852.  M. A. CRIPPS.

 _Subscriptions and Donations to the Kensington Maternal Society_, 1852.

                            £   _s._   _d._
Abercrombie, Mrs.           0      5      0
Auldjo, Mrs.                0      5      0
Barlow, Mrs. F.             0      5      0
Barlow, Mrs. J.             0      5      0
Buckmaster, Mrs.            0      5      0
Bayford, Mrs.               0      5      0
Boyle, Mrs.                 0      5      0
Clarke, Mrs.                0      5      0
Clarke, Miss                0      5      0
Cotton, Mrs.                0      5      0
Cripps, Mrs.                0      5      0
Codd, Miss                  0      5      0
Cope, Mrs.                  0      5      0
Coulbourne, Mr.             0      5      0
Coulbourne, Mr. J.          0      5      0
Crosse, Miss                0      5      0
Desbarres, Mrs. H.          0      5      0
Gunter, Mrs.                0     10      0
Goodeve, Mrs.               0      5      0
Greene, Mrs. E. B.          0      5      0
Horsley, Mrs.               0      5      0
Hessey, Mrs.                0      5      0
Helme, Miss                 0      5      0
Howlett, Miss               0      5      0
Hare, Miss                  0      5      0
Holmes, Miss                0      5      0
Jenings, Mrs.               0     10      0
James, Miss                 0      5      0
Key, Mrs. Aston             0     10      0
Lascelles, Lady C.          0     10      0
Lloyd, Mrs.                 0      5      0
Litt, Miss                  0      5      0
Merriman, Mrs.              0      5      0
Merriman, Mrs. J. N.        0      5      0
Miley, Miss                 0      5      0
Ogle, Mrs.                  0      5      0
Penny, Mrs.                 0     10      0
Paynter, Mrs.               0      5      0
Pollock, Mrs.               0      5
Pallister, Miss             0      5      0
Rougemont, Mrs.             0      5      0
Rougemont, Mrs. D. A.       0      5      0
Rathbone, Miss              0      5      0
Shaw, Mrs. W. A.            0     10      0
Senior, Mrs.                0     10      0
Sheppard, Mrs.              0      5      0
Thew, Mrs.                  0      5      0
Weston, Mrs.                0      5      0
Warner, Mrs.                0      5      0
Vallotton, Mrs.             0      5      0
Donation from a Friend      5      0      0

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF STREETS, &c.
INCLUDED IN THE DISTRICTS OF THE
ST. MARY ABBOTT’S, KENSINGTON,
District Visiting Society.


*** _Members referring any case to the Visitor are requested to state_,
_on the Ticket or Note_, _the exact residence of the applicant_, _and the
No. of the District_, _from the following list_.

_Communications respecting persons resident in streets_, _&c._, _not in
this List_, _may be made to the Clergy of the respective portions of
Kensington or Notting Hill_.

                                                No. of the District.
Adam and Eve-cottages, High-street                                  25
Adam and Eve-yard, High-street                                      25
Albert-square, Southend                                             17
Albert-cottages                                                     17
Annis-place, Duke’s-lane                                            26
Ball’s-court, High-street                                           19
Barlow’s-cottages, Kensington-square                                17
Bird’s-cottages, Duke’s-lane                                        26
Bird’s-cottages, Jennings’-buildings                                 4
Brown’s-buildings, High-street                                       6
Bullingham-Place                                                    26
Campden-hill West                                                   30
Camden-street, 1–19                                                 32
Camden-street, 19—end                                               33
Camden-street, South-side                                           38
Camden-street-mews                                                  38
Chancellor’s-yard                                                   25
Charles-place                                                       15
Charles-street                                                      12
Charles-street (Little)                                             15
Charles-street cottages                                             15
Church-court, Nos. 2, 7, 9, 10, 13, and                             22
Galleries
Church-court, Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 11, 12, 14                        23
Church-lane                                                         27
Church-street                                                       27
Claremont-cottages                                                  35
Cooke’s-lane                                                        16
Cooper’s-gardens, 37 to 55                                          37
Cousin’s-cottages                                                   36
Duckmanton-court                                                    20
Duckmanton-yard                                                     11
Duke’s-lane                                                         26
Dulwich-court                                                       26
Edge-place                                                          36
Gardiner’s-buildings                                                20
Gordon-cottages, Duke’s-lane                                        26
Gore-lane, West side, 1–20                                           1
Gore-lane, West side, 21–34                                          2
Gore-lane, West side, 35–47, East side                               3
Great Grove House, High-street                                       6
Gregory-cottages                                                    28
Haine’s-buildings                                                   17
Holland-cottages, Duke’s-lane                                       26
Holland-place                                                       27
Holland-street                                                      28
Hornton-mews                                                        24
Hughes’-cottages                                                    19
Ivy-cottages, Gore-lane                                              3
James-place                                                         12
James-street, North side, No. 1–4; East                             12
side, 1–2
James-street, East side, No. 3–10; West                              9
side, 3–10
James-street, No. 11–20                                             14
James-street, West side, No.  11–14; 21–24,                         13
22A
James-street-mews                                                   12
Jennings’-buildings, &c., No. 1–23; 37–63                            4
Jennings’-buildings, &c., No. 24–36                                  5
Kensington-place                                                     6
King-street, West side, No. 1–4                                     17
King-street, West side, No. 5–15                                    18
King-street, East side, No. 16–24                                   19
Knibb’s-cottages                                                    25
Lawrence-cottages                                                   27
Mall (The)                                                          34
Market-court proper                                                 21
Market-court, Gardiner’s-buildings                                  20
New-court, Jennings’-buildings                                       4
Newland-street, East side                                           25
Oliver’s-cottages, Market-court                                     20
Orchard-street, Holland-street                                      28
Palace-place, No. 8–14                                               7
Palace-place (remainder)                                             8
Peel-place                                                          34
Peel-street, North side, No. 1–25                                   29
Peel-street, South side, No. 75–71, 1–10                            31
Peel-street, South side, No. 11–17, 27–29,                          30
21–26, 34–51
Phillimore-mews                                                     24
Playhouse-yard                                                       6
Reservoir-cottages                                                  36
Russell’s-gardens                                                   10
Sharp’s-cottages, Jennings’-buildings                                4
Shepard’s-gardens                                                   10
Somerset-yard                                                       25
Southend-row-gardens                                                16
Tavern-yard                                                          4
Thomas-place                                                         4
Trafalgar-place                                                     16
Victoria-cottages                                                   17
Wiple-place                                                         27
Young-street                                                        11

LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS AND DONORS FOR THE YEAR 1852.


*** _It is particularly requested that any error in this List may be
notified to the Treasurer or Secretaries_.

_Subscriptions and Donations may be paid either to the Treasurer_,
_Secretaries or Collector_.

_Subscriptions may be given in favour of any particular district_, _if
desired_.

                                 Donations.        Subscriptions.
                                £   _s._   _d._      £   _s._   _d._
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN                               10     10      0
The Venerable Archdeacon                             5      5      0
Sinclair, Vicar and
President
Abercrombie, Mr., 25,                                3      3      0
Kensington-square
Abercrombie, Misses, The                             2      2      0
Square
Alexander, Miss, 26,                                 0     10      0
Hornton-street
Arnold and Roxberry,                                 0     10      0
Messrs., High-street
Abud, Miss, 15,                                      0     10      0
Sussex-place
A Friend, by the                                     0      5      0
Archdeacon
Bailey, Mr. C., 45,                                  1      1      0
High-street
Ball, Miss, 6, Bath-place                            0     10      0
Banister, Mrs., 6,                                   0     10      0
Campden-grove
Banting, Mr., 5, The                                 0     10      0
Terrace
Barlow, Mr. F. Pratt, 24,                            4      4      0
Kensington-square
Barlow, Mrs. F. P. ditto                             1      1      0
Barlow, Miss, ditto                                  1      1      0
Barlow, Miss Katharine,                              0      2      6
ditto
Barlow, Mr. J. Pratt,                                2      2      0
Hyde-park-gate
Barrow, Sir G.,                                      1      1      0
Kensington-palace
Barrow, Lady,                                        1      1      0
Kensington-palace
Bayford, Dr., 5, Upper                               1      1      0
Hornton-villas
Beachcroft, Mr. C.,                                  1      1      0
High-street, Notting-hill
Bedford, Dowager Duchess                             2      2      0
of, Campden-hill
Bell, Mr. John, Little                               3      0      0
Campden House, East
Bell, Miss, 27,                                      1      1      0
Hornton-street
Bennington, Mrs., 2,                                 1      1      0
Victoria-road
Beresford, Lady G., 6,                               1      1      0
Hyde-park-gate South
Biggar, Mr. J., 3,              1      0      0      2      0      0
Allen-terrace
Biggar, The Misses, ditto       4      0      0      2      0      0
Birch, Mr. W., 10, Terrace                           1      1      0
Bond, Mr., 5,                                        1      1      0
Gloucester-terrace
Boyd, Mrs., 5,                                       0      5      0
Gordon-terrace
Boyle, Mr. W., R.A., 4,                              1      1      0
Church-street
Breeze, Messrs., 19,                                 1      1      0
High-street
Buckmaster, Mrs., 16,                                2      2      0
Holland-street
Bunyon, Mr. C.,                                      1      1      0
Hyde-park-gate South
Callcott, Mr. W. H., The                             1      1      0
Mall
Camden, Mrs., 5,                                     0     10      0
Allen-terrace
Clarke, Mr.,                                         2      2      0
Kensington-square
Clarke, Mr. John, 25,                                1      1      0
Hornton-street
Codd, Miss, 2,                                       0     10      0
Campden-house-road
Codd, Miss Shirley, ditto                            0     10      0
Colbeck, Mr. T. R., 12,         1      0      0      2      1      0
Hornton-street
Cole, Mr. H., 1,                                     1      1      0
Kensington-terrace
Collingdon, Mrs., 5,                                 0     10      0
Kensington-square
Collingdon, Mr. I., ditto                            1      1      0
Compton, Miss, 12,              0     10      0
Scarsdale-terrace
Cooke, Mr., 12,                                      1      1      0
Scarsdale-terrace
Cooke, Mr. E. W., The           2      2      0      1      1      0
Ferns, Victoria-road
Coomb, Mrs., 5, Upper                                1      0      0
Phillimore-place
Cope, Mr. C. W., R.A., 19,                           2      2      0
Hyde-park-gate South
Cornell, Mr., 1,                                     1      1      0
Canning-place
Cotton, Mr., 10,                                     2      2      0
Kensington-square
Cowper, Mr. E., ditto                                1      1      0
Cowper, Miss M. E., 9,                               0      5      0
Kensington-park-road
Crane, Miss, 16,                                     1      1      0
Scarsdale-terrace
Cripps, Mrs., 9,                                     1      1      0
Gordon-place
Croad, Major, Forest House                           1      1      0
Crosse, Miss, 8, The                                 1      1      0
Terrace
Crosse, Mr., H. W., The                              0     10      6
Terrace
Cunningham, Mrs., 2,                                 1      1      0
Madeley Villas
Cunningham, Mrs., 4, ditto                           1      1      0
Desbarres, Mr. H. W., 40,                            1      1      0
Bedford-place
Disbrowe, Miss,                                      2      2      0
Kensington-palace
Ellis, Mr. C., 42,                                   1      1      0
Kensington-square
England, Miss, 3,                                    2      0      0
Phillimore-place
Forbes, Mrs. and Miss, 16,                           1      1      0
Kensington-square
Forbes, Miss,                                        1      1      0
Vicarage-place
Fox, Mr. C., 10,                                     0     10      0
Campden-hill-road
Freem, Miss, 23,                                     0      5      0
High-street
Frost, Rev. G., 28,                                  1      1      0
Kensington-square
Gaven, Mr. D., 15, St.                               1      1      0
George’s-terrace
Gee, Mrs. John, 5,                                   1      1      0
Victoria-road
George, Mr., 4,                                      1      1      0
Hornton-villas
Giles, Miss, 26,                                     0     10      0
Kensington-square
Gloyne, Mr., 5, Terrace                              1      1      0
Godfrey, Mr., 3,                                     0     10      6
Somerset-terrace
Good, Mr., Palace-green                              3      0      0
Goodeve, Mr., 41,                                    2      2      0
Kensington-square
Grafton, Major, 14,                                  0     10      0
Sheffield-terrace
Green, Mrs. E. B., 16,                               1      1      0
Lower Phillimore-place
Grew, Le, Mr., 1, St.                                1      1      0
Alban’s-road
Haines, Mr. John,                                    0     10      0
High-street
Hall, Major,                    1      0      0
Phillimore-terrace
Hall, Mr. R., 3,                                     1      1      0
Kensington-square
Hampshire, Mr. William,                              1      1      0
16, Sussex-place
Hayes, Mr., 5,                  0      5      0
Pembroke-road
Haynes, Mrs., Peel-street                            0      1      0
Hawes, Mr., High-row                                 0      1      0
Hennell, Mrs. C., 21,                                1      1      0
Campden-grove
Hennell, Miss, ditto                                 1      1      0
Hepburn, Mrs., 8,                                    1      1      0
Hornton-street
Hessey, Rev. Dr. F., 27,                             1      1      0
Kensington-square
Holmes, Miss, The Terrace                            0     14      0
Horsley, Mr. J. C., The                              2      2      0
Mall
Horsley, Mr. and Family,                             2      0      0
1, High-row
Howlett, Rev. J. H., 9,                              2      2      0
Young-street
Hughes, Mr. W. H., 50,                               1      1      0
High-street
Ifold, Mrs., South-lodge,                            0     10      0
Campden-hill
Jackson, Rev. J.,                                    1      1      0
Kensington-place
Jackson, Admiral, 21,                                2      0      0
Hornton-street
Jackson, Mr. H., 8, St.                              1      1      0
George’s-terrace
Jackson, Mrs., 3,                                    0      5      0
Sheffield-terrace
Jenings, Mrs., 2, The                                1      1      0
Terrace
Jenings, Miss, ditto                                 0     10      0
Jolly, Mrs., 10,                                     1      1      0
Campden-grove
Jones, Mr., 18,                                      1      1      0
Victoria-road
Kent, Mrs., 1, Bath-place                            1      0      0
Key, Mr., 7, Upper                                   0     10      0
Phillimore-place
Key, Mrs. Aston,                                     5      0      0
Kensington-square
Kidd, Mr. C.,                                        5      0      0
Hyde-park-gate
Kingsford, Mr.,                                      0     10      0
High-street
Kingston, Mr., 3,                                    0     10      6
Scarsdale-terrace
Kite, Mrs. Penfold, 3,                               1      1      0
Gordon-place
Lascelles, Lady Caroline,                            4      0      0
Campden-hill
Lascelles, Miss, ditto                               1      0      0
Lasbury, Mr., 12, The                                0     10      0
Terrace
Leicester, Mrs.,                                     1      1      0
Bullingham-place
Lewis, Mrs., 7,                                      0     10      0
Edwardes-square
Litt, Miss, 42,                                      1      1      0
Kensington-square
Lloyd, Dr., 4, Upper                                 1      1      0
Phillimore-place
Lloyd, Mrs., ditto                                   1      1      0
Lomas, Mr., 34,                                      1      1      0
High-street
Mackay, Mrs., 17,                                    2      2      0
Scarsdale-terrace
Merriman, Mr., 45,                                   3      3      0
Kensington-square
Merriman, Miss C. ditto                              0      2      6
Merriman, Mr. S. ditto                               0      2      6
Merriman, Mr. W. ditto                               0      2      6
Merriman, Mr. James N., 7,                           1      1      0
Kensington-square
Merriman, Mrs. J. N. ditto                           1      1      0
Miley, Mr., 6, Upper                                 1      1      0
Phillimore-place
Miley, the Misses 9, Upper                           1      0      0
Phillimore-place
Moore, Mr. J. C., 4,                                 2      0      0
Hyde-park-gate
Noble, Mr. Jesse, 12, St.                            1      1      0
George’s-terrace
Oak, Mr., 36, High-street                            0     10      0
Pallister, Miss, 22,                                 1      1      0
Kensington-square
Paxton, Mrs., 56,                                    0     10      0
High-street
Payne, Mr. W., 32,                                   2      2      0
Kensington-square
Paynter, Mr., Addison-road      1      1      0
Pearse, Mr., 25,                                     1      0      0
Sussex-place
Penny, Mrs., 12, Upper                               2      2      0
Phillimore-place
Phillips, Miss, 37,                                  0     10      0
Kensington-square
Philp, Dr., Colby House                              1      1      0
Philp, Mrs., ditto                                   1      1      0
Pickering, Miss, 4,                                  0      5      0
Pembroke-road
Pickering, Mr. J., ditto                             1      1      0
Pickering, Miss M. G.,                               0      2      6
ditto
Pitt, Mrs., Vicarage-place                           1      1      0
Pollock, Mr., 7,                                     1      1      0
Bath-place
Radford, Mr. J., 16,                                 0      5      0
Sheffield-terrace
Rathbone, Miss, 15, Lower                            1      1      0
Phillimore-place
Redgrave, Mr. R., 8,                                 1      0      0
Hyde-park-gate South
Redgrave, Mr. S., 7, ditto                           0     10      0
Redgrave, Miss, ditto                                0     10      0
Remnant, Mrs., 25, Upper                             0     10      0
Phillimore-place
Rougemont, Mrs.,                                     1      1      0
Wright’s-lane
Rougemont, Mr. H. ditto                              1      1      0
Rougemont, Miss, ditto                               1      1      0
Rougemont, Miss S. ditto                             1      1      0
Rougemont, Miss Helen,                               1      1      0
ditto
Rougemont, Mr. D. Alex.,                             2      2      0
23, Kensington-square
Rougemont, Mrs. D. A.                                1      1      0
ditto
Russell, Mr., 3,                                     1      1      0
Scarsdale-terrace
Russell, Mr., 12,                                    0     15      0
Douro-place
Scales, Miss, 5,                                     1      1      0
Kensington-square
Senior, Mrs.,                                        1      0      0
Hyde-park-gate
Shaw, Mr. W. A.,                                     5      0      0
Wycombe-lodge
Sheppard, Mrs., 5,                                   1      1      0
Ladbroke-place
Sheppard, Miss, ditto                                0     10      6
Sheppard, Mr. 4,                                     0     10      0
Phillimore-place
Sheppard, Mr. High-street                            1      0      0
Slater, Mr., High-street                             1      0      0
Smith, Mrs. George, 27,                              1      1      0
Bedford-place
Smith, Mr. J. H., ditto                              0     10      0
Smith, Miss, ditto                                   0     10      0
Sinclair, Miss, Edinbro’                             1      0      0
Sinclair, Miss M.,                                   1      0      0
Edinbro’
Sperling, Mr. J., 16,           3      0      0
Palace-gardens
Sperling, Mrs. J., ditto        2      0      0
Stephenson, Miss C.,                                 1      1      0
Kensington-palace
Sullivan, Mrs., Little                               2      2      0
Campden-house East
Symons, Mrs., 10,                                    0     10      0
Young-street
Taylor, Mrs.,                                        0     10      0
Sheffield-house
Taylor, Lady,                                        1      1      0
Kensington-palace
Thew, Mrs., Hyde-park-gate                           2      2      0
South
Thompson, Mrs., Lower                                1      1      0
Seymour-street
Thompson, Miss, ditto                                1      1      0
Thompson, Mr. F., 5, St.                             1     10      0
George’s-terrace
Tyne, Mrs., High-street                              0      5      0
Uwins, Mr. Thomas, R.A.,                             1      1      0
Victoria-road
Vallotton, Mr.,                                      1      1      0
Hyde-park-gate
Vallotton, Miss, ditto                               1      0      0
Vincent, Mr. H. W.,                                  2      0      0
Thornwood-lodge,
Campden-hill
Vincent, Mrs., 1, Upper                              0     10      0
Phillimore-place
Vyvyan, Miss, 10,                                    1      0      0
Notting-hill-terrace
Waddilove, Dr.,                                      2      2      0
Ladbroke-place West
Warner, Mr., 9,                                      2      2      0
Kensington-square
Watson, Mr. Joseph,                                  4      0      0
Hyde-park-gate
Watson, Miss, 3,                                     1      0      0
Bath-place
Webster, Mr. Thomas, The                             1      1      0
Mall
West, Miss, 18,                                      0     10      0
Bedford-place
Weston, Mr.,                    3      3      0      2      2      0
Hyde-park-gate
Weston, Mr. A., jun.,                                1      0      0
ditto
Weston, Miss, ditto                                  0      5      0
White, Misses,                                       2      0      0
Pembroke-road
Wilkins, Mr. Serjeant, 7,                            0     10      0
The Terrace
Willis, Miss E.,                                     2      0      0
Palace-green
Willock, Mrs. George,                                3      3      0
Vicarage-place
Wilson, Mr. B., 22,                                  1      1      0
Bedford-place
Woodcock, Mr., 4,                                    0     10      0
High-street
Worthington, Mr., 3,                                 0      5      0
Mayfield-place

                                * * * * *

               W. Birch, Printer, High Street, Kensington.




FOOTNOTES


{19}  Families may render essential service to the School by supplying it
with plain needlework, which will be executed at a moderate price, and
the profits devoted to the general school expences.  Communications
respecting needlework may be addressed to Mrs. Jackson, Kensington
Palace, who kindly superintends this department of the girls’ school.




***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE ST. MARY
ABBOTT'S, KENSINGTON, CHURCH OF ENGLAND DISTRICT VISITING SOCIETY***


******* This file should be named 43461-0.txt or 43461-0.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/4/3/4/6/43461



Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
  www.gutenberg.org/license.


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at 809
North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887.  Email
contact links and up to date contact information can be found at the
Foundation's web site and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit:  www.gutenberg.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For forty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
